README.md, before:

# flightgear-control
Control and interact with a FlightGear aircraft generically with telnet and sockets. 

Easily and cheaply simulate a complex real-world machine with mechanical causality.

Generically fly aircraft by executing the plane's engine startup script and diligently correcting drift and deviation from a flight path by constantly repositioning the plane orientation within the simulator environment along a waypoint track. 

----

#### Requirements ####
1. JDK 11
1. FlightGear 2018.3.2 or similar

#### Setup ####

1. Build flightgear directly from source or install the package through your distro's package manager.
1. Run flightgear and verify that models "c172p" and "org.flightgear.fgaddon.stable_2018.f15c" are present. Install the models from the asset marketplace if they're missing.
1. Copy the protocol xml files in the protocol directory of this project to FlightGear's Protocol directory. Copy the files themselves and not the directory structure. 
    `cp -v protocol/*/*/*.xml /path/to/flightgear/Protocol`
1. Run the scripts in the scripts directory to launch the flightgear simulator with the required configuration for control. Check that the hosts and ports set for the sockets jive with what's already running, and that the flightgear binary fgfs is on the system path.
1. Netcat can be used to view the simulator telemetry data directly. If you are launching FlightGear from a provided bash script, the first port in the supplied start port range will output simulator telemetry in a readable form. For example, if launching the simulator with `scripts/c172p_runway.sh 6500`, execute `nc -l -u -p 6500 127.0.0.1` to view simulator telemetry.
1. Import this project into your IDE as a gradle project.
1. Generate the project jar using the gradle jar task for use/integration in other projects. 

#### Flights ####

1. Sample main programs reside in packages: org.jason.fgcontrol.aircraft.[aircraft name].app, and can be executed as Java applications. Sample applications will run with a default configuration, or supplied properties files in the `scripts/conf` directory to specify simulator port ranges.

Commit message:

JDK8 requirement. Build section describing jar tasks

README.md, after:

# flightgear-control
Control and interact with a FlightGear aircraft generically with telnet and sockets. 

Easily and cheaply simulate a complex real-world machine with mechanical causality.

Generically fly aircraft by executing the plane's engine startup script and diligently correcting drift and deviation from a flight path by constantly repositioning the plane orientation within the simulator environment along a waypoint track. 

----

#### Requirements ####
1. JDK 8
1. FlightGear 2018.3.2 or similar

#### Setup ####

1. Build flightgear directly from source or install the package through your distro's package manager.
1. Run flightgear and verify that models "c172p" and "org.flightgear.fgaddon.stable_2018.f15c" are present. Install the models from the asset marketplace if they're missing.
1. Copy the protocol xml files in the protocol directory of this project to FlightGear's Protocol directory. Copy the files themselves and not the directory structure. 
    `cp -v protocol/*/*/*.xml /path/to/flightgear/Protocol`
1. Run the scripts in the scripts directory to launch the flightgear simulator with the required configuration for control. Check that the hosts and ports set for the sockets jive with what's already running, and that the flightgear binary fgfs is on the system path.
1. Netcat can be used to view the simulator telemetry data directly. If you are launching FlightGear from a provided bash script, the first port in the supplied start port range will output simulator telemetry in a readable form. For example, if launching the simulator with `scripts/c172p_runway.sh 6500`, execute `nc -l -u -p 6500 127.0.0.1` to view simulator telemetry.
1. Import this project into your IDE as a gradle project.
1. Generate the project jar using the gradle jar task for use/integration in other projects. 

#### Building ####
Use tasks `jar`, `appjar`, and `sourcesjar` to generate the jars for this project.
* `jar` - The primary output jar for incorporating into other projects.
* `appjar` - Driver applications for testing functionality locally.
* `sourcesjar` - Sources jar to accompany the main jar for incorporating into other projects.

#### Flights ####

1. Sample main programs reside in packages: org.jason.fgcontrol.aircraft.[aircraft name].app, and can be executed as Java applications. Sample applications will run with a default configuration, or supplied properties files in the `scripts/conf` directory to specify simulator port ranges.
