# C172P Operating Manual #

Notes, issues, and quirks for operating the Cessna 172P as part of the flightgear-control project

### Launch Scripts ###
* `flightgear-control/scripts/c172p_flight.sh [start of port range] [initial heading in degrees] [starting latitude] [starting longitude] [aircraft nickname]`
    * To launch a waypoint flight from YVR Airport: `flightgear-control/scripts/c172p_flight.sh 5000 326 49.19524 -123.18084 c172p_alpha`
    * The initial heading should be the heading/bearing of the first waypoint in the flightplan from the starting position.
* `flightgear-control/scripts/c172p_runway.sh [start of port range] [aircraft nickname]`
    * To launch a runway operation from YVR Airport: `flightgear-control/scripts/c172p_runway.sh 5000 c172p_alpha`
    

### Applications ###
* Create the project applications jar by running the gradle build task "appjar": `JAVA_HOME=/path/to/jdk8 ./gradlew appjar`
* Choose a config file to match a port range. Documented [here](PORT_RANGES.md).
* `org.jason.fgcontrol.aircraft.c172p.app.WaypointFlight [config file]`
    * Pair with a simulator instance launched with `flightgear-control/scripts/c172p_flight.sh`
    * Flies a waypoint flight plan over the Greater Vancouver metropolitan area at 8x speed. Approximate runtime of 8 minutes.
    * For the examples in the previous section, a port range beginning with 5000 is used by config file c172p_alpha_runway.properties.
    * An mjpeg stream of the simulator view is available at http://host:5018/cameraView
    * An SSHD server is available on at port 5019 with credentials edge/twxedge
* `org.jason.fgcontrol.aircraft.c172p.app.RunwayBurnout [config file]`
    * Pair with a simulator instance launched with `flightgear-control/scripts/c172p_runway.sh`
    * Completes a runway burnout (starts engine, applies parking brake, increases throttle, then waits until loaded fuel is consumed.
    * For the examples in the previous section, a port range beginning with 5000 is used by config file c172p_alpha_runway.properties.

### Notes ###

autostart nasal code: 
    `planeStartupTelnetSession.runNasal("c172p.autostart();");`

Propeller plane pulls air over the aircraft geometry in a helix, which causes a slight and constant roll
    Mitigated partially by setting control surfaces accordingly.

Camera view transitions are sluggish for a time after the simulator is launched.
    supposedly non-hd liveries don't have this problem but i have not observed that

Autostart resets controls surfaces in a way suited for takeoff (flaps are down)

Autostart refuels tanks to about 5 gallons

If the camera view is changed during autostart, the camera can end up pointing downward at the pilot seat
    mitigated by delaying the initial camera view property change
    observed in flightgear 2020.3.17 but not in flightgear 2018.3.2

Startup livery arg `--livery` does not seem to apply livery
observed in flightgear 2020.3.17, not tested in other versions

On some hardware, have observed the engine stopping after the launch stabilization of waypointflight.runflight
    Can be mitigated by periodically checking engine state, invoking autostart, and resetting control surface.

Aircraft has fixed landing gear

Icing occurs, leading to failures, when flying in some climates if not explicitly disabled

Hard course changes made by changing heading values can break the aircraft wings
    Mitigated by disabling aircraft damage
    
No explicit shutdown of aircraft. likely by design as a safety measure. stop the engine by setting mixture at 0.

Parking brake is set in the lower-level sim model properties /sim/model/c172p

Disabling particles as part of rendering settings seem to cause nil reference errors visible in the shell
    
Flights consume considerably more VRAM at later simulator versions with the same rendering settings

Occasionally, the simulator can hang if shutdown is invoked over telnet
