# F15C Operating Manual #

Notes, issues, and quirks for operating the McDonnell Douglas F15-C as part of the flightgear-control project.

<!---
 "loop" and "autoplay" aren't supported by github markdown rendering but maybe one day.
-->

<video controls="controls" muted="muted" loop="loop" autoplay="autoplay" src="https://github.com/jas0ndiamond/flightgear-control/assets/7103526/1934b311-00de-4316-be74-1b0301427464" >
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

----
### Launch Scripts ###
*`flightgear-control/scripts/f15c_flight.sh [start of port range] [initial heading in degrees] [starting latitude] [starting longitude] [aircraft nickname]`
    * To launch a waypoint flight from YVR Airport: `flightgear-control/scripts/f15c_flight.sh 5220 103 49.19524 -123.18084 f15c_beta`
    * The initial heading should be the heading/bearing of the first waypoint in the flightplan from the starting position.
* `flightgear-control/scripts/f15c_runway.sh [start of port range] [aircraft nickname]`
    * To launch a runway operation from YVR Airport: `flightgear-control/scripts/f15c_runway.sh 5220 f15c_beta`
    
----
### Applications ###
* Create the project applications jar by running the gradle build task "appjar": `JAVA_HOME=/path/to/jdk ./gradlew appjar`
* Choose a config file to match a port range. Documented [here](PORT_RANGES.md).
* `org.jason.fgcontrol.aircraft.f15c.app.WaypointFlight [config file]`
    * Pair with a simulator instance launched with `flightgear-control/scripts/f15c_flight.sh`
    * Flies a waypoint flight plan over southern British Columbia and Vancouver Island. Approximate runtime of 30 minutes.
    * For the examples in the previous section, a port range beginning with 5220 is used by config file f15c_beta_flight.properties
    * An mjpeg stream of the simulator view is available at http://host:5238/cameraView
    * An SSHD server is available on at port 5239 with credentials edge/twxedge
* `org.jason.fgcontrol.aircraft.f15c.app.RunwayBurnout [config file]`
    * Pair with a simulator instance launched with `flightgear-control/scripts/f15c_runway.sh`
    * Completes a runway burnout (starts engine, applies parking brake, increases throttle, then waits until loaded fuel is consumed.
    * For the examples in the previous section, a port range beginning with 5220 is used by config file f15c_beta_runway.properties
    
----
### Notes ###

autostart nasal code: 
    `planeStartupTelnetSession.runNasal("aircraft.quickstart();");`
    
Landing gear is automatically retracted above an altitude threshold.

Below 0.95 (95%) throttle, the engine exhaust/thrust animation is not visible.

Can be tricky to pull hard turns when the simulator speedup is higher than 1x.

Fuel is consumed fairly quickly at full throttle.

Above a velocity threshold, problems can occur. Vne warnings will appear in the simulator UI.

Can load armaments, but deploying them from the property tree is tricky. 

Occasionally, the simulator can hang if shutdown is invoked over telnet
