# F35B2 Operating Manual #

Notes, issues, and quirks for operating the Lockheed-Martin F35-B Lightning II as part of the flightgear-control project

<!---
 "loop" and "autoplay" aren't supported by github markdown rendering but maybe one day.
-->

<video controls="controls" muted="muted" loop="loop" autoplay="autoplay" src="https://github.com/jas0ndiamond/flightgear-control/assets/7103526/10e8c660-6719-4c9e-bee9-3650e0f339ab" >
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

----
### Setup ###
The aircraft model version pinned to FlightGear 2020.3.17 from the default hangar has a bug in its JSBSim version of the aircraft that will prevent the simulator from launching.

To patch, edit file `flightgear-2020.3.17/fgfs/Aircraft/org.flightgear.fgaddon.stable_2020/Aircraft/F-35B/Systems/pushback.xml` and comment out the following tags;
* `<kp>/sim/model/pushback/kp</kp>`
* `<ki>/sim/model/pushback/ki</ki>`
* `<kd>/sim/model/pushback/kd</kd>`

----
### Launch Scripts ###
* Create the project applications jar by running the gradle build task "appjar": `JAVA_HOME=/path/to/jdk8 ./gradlew appjar`
* Choose a config file to match a port range. Documented [here](PORT_RANGES.md).

----
### Applications ###
* `org.jason.fgcontrol.aircraft.f35b2.app.SustainedFlight [config file] [headingInDegrees]` 


----
### Notes ###

The service ceiling for the f35b2 is 50,000 ft. If you're flying the plane at lower altitudes, keep the throttle lower or you'll see control problems, i.e. 80% throttle for a target altitude of 15,000 ft.

Depending on how high the throttle is set, the elevator will have to be adjusted in turn for stable flight.

Yasim model does not support writable orientation values, and is not suitable for the simplistic ways this project generically flies aircraft.

No autostart - just toss it into the air from the shell and push the throttle up.
    Autostarts above an altitude threshold

Super basic simulator model. Essentially a generic aircraft loosely in the shape of the real F-35B2 aircraft.
    Since it's a fairly new aircraft, some specs are not available publicly, or are outright classified.
    Similarly with cockpit model
    
1 Engine

8 Fuel tanks


