doc/f35b2.md, before:

# F35B2 Operating Manual #

Notes, issues, and quirks for operating the Lockheed-Martin F35-B Lightning II as part of the flightgear-control project

### Setup ###
The aircraft model version pinned to FlightGear 2020.3.17 from the default hangar has a bug in its JSBSim version of the aircraft that will prevent the simulator from launching.

To patch, edit file `flightgear-2020.3.17/fgfs/Aircraft/org.flightgear.fgaddon.stable_2020/Aircraft/F-35B/Systems/pushback.xml` and comment out the following tags;
* `<kp>/sim/model/pushback/kp</kp>`
* `<ki>/sim/model/pushback/ki</ki>`
* `<kd>/sim/model/pushback/kd</kd>`

### Launch Scripts ###
* Create the project applications jar by running the gradle build task "appjar": `JAVA_HOME=/path/to/jdk8 ./gradlew appjar`
* Choose a config file to match a port range. Documented [here](PORT_RANGES.md).

### Applications ###
* `org.jason.fgcontrol.aircraft.f35b2.app.SustainedFlight [config file] [headingInDegrees]` 



### Notes ###

Yasim model does not support writable orientation values, and is not suitable for the simplistic ways this project generically flies aircraft.

No autostart - just toss it into the air from the shell and push the throttle up.
    Autostarts above an altitude threshold

Super basic simulator model. Essentially a generic aircraft loosely in the shape of the real F-35B2 aircraft.
    Since it's a fairly new aircraft, some specs are not available publicly, or are outright classified.
    Similarly with cockpit model
    
1 Engine

8 Fuel tanks

Commit message:

add notes about altitude and throttle max

doc/f35b2.md, after:

# F35B2 Operating Manual #

Notes, issues, and quirks for operating the Lockheed-Martin F35-B Lightning II as part of the flightgear-control project

----
### Setup ###
The aircraft model version pinned to FlightGear 2020.3.17 from the default hangar has a bug in its JSBSim version of the aircraft that will prevent the simulator from launching.

To patch, edit file `flightgear-2020.3.17/fgfs/Aircraft/org.flightgear.fgaddon.stable_2020/Aircraft/F-35B/Systems/pushback.xml` and comment out the following tags;
* `<kp>/sim/model/pushback/kp</kp>`
* `<ki>/sim/model/pushback/ki</ki>`
* `<kd>/sim/model/pushback/kd</kd>`

----
### Launch Scripts ###
* Create the project applications jar by running the gradle build task "appjar": `JAVA_HOME=/path/to/jdk8 ./gradlew appjar`
* Choose a config file to match a port range. Documented [here](PORT_RANGES.md).

----
### Applications ###
* `org.jason.fgcontrol.aircraft.f35b2.app.SustainedFlight [config file] [headingInDegrees]` 


----
### Notes ###

The service ceiling for the f35b2 is 50,000 ft. If you're flying the plane at lower altitudes, keep the throttle lower or you'll see control problems, i.e. 80% throttle for a target altitude of 15,000 ft.

Yasim model does not support writable orientation values, and is not suitable for the simplistic ways this project generically flies aircraft.

No autostart - just toss it into the air from the shell and push the throttle up.
    Autostarts above an altitude threshold

Super basic simulator model. Essentially a generic aircraft loosely in the shape of the real F-35B2 aircraft.
    Since it's a fairly new aircraft, some specs are not available publicly, or are outright classified.
    Similarly with cockpit model
    
1 Engine

8 Fuel tanks
